#summary New instructions using java API

= Introduction =

First of all, _speechOO_ give up the _corujaJNI_ directly, now it uses another layer for java called by _JLaPSAPI_. This API follows _JSAPI_ documentation. Then, it has some specials procedures to work and take a look on requirements needed.

= Details =

Download the speechoo code using subversion.

==JLaPSAPI==

The installation instructions of _JLaPSAPI_ are in this site(just in Portuguese for while). Just follow all steps.
http://www.laps.ufpa.br/falabrasil/jlapsapi

==Netbeans==

Then install Netbeans 6.8(you must use this version!) Java SE.
http://netbeans.org/downloads/6.8/index.html

Follow instructions as shown on two links below to install OpenOffice plugin for _Netbeans_.

*Obs*: Use libreoffice-dev and libreoffice instead of OpenOffice.

http://ccsl.ime.usp.br/cogroo/maven/extensoes_broo/index.html#Intro

http://ccsl.ime.usp.br/cogroo/maven/extensoes_broo/index.html#Exercise_0

*Obs*: you will need to find the installation directory, probally on Ubuntu would be _/usr/share/libreoffice_ or _/usr/share/local/libreoffice_ or _/opt/libreoffice_ , those are some chances.

Import the project on a directory like this one _{relative directory}/trunk/SpeechOO. Then you will see many erros, just go to the project properties>libraries.
At next you remove the broken reference to brOffice3.2 and add the Libreoffice3.x. Finally add _JLaPSAPI_ and _JSAPI_ JARs which are inside the lib folder of the project.

"OK! I made everything you said and one error continues". Take easy! Just click with the right button of the mouse on the project and create OXT. Now everything is fine!

On the link below has some tutorials for Libreoffice extensions. Try them to better know how this stuff works.

http://ccsl.ime.usp.br/cogroo/maven/extensoes_broo/index.html#Exercise_1

Suggestions or help: hugo.santos@itec.ufpa.br